Python Basics Question:
1. Who Developed Python Programming Language? A. Guido van Rossum developed Python Programming Language .
2. Which type of programming does python support?
A. Python support Object-oriented Programming and structured programming .
3. Is python case sensitive when dealing with identifiers?
A. Yes , python is case sensitive language.
4. What is the correct extension of python file? A. .py is the extension of python file and .ipynb is the extension of ipython notebook.
5. Is python code compiled or interpreted?
A. Python is an interpreted language, which means the source code of a Python program is converted into bytecode that is then executed by the Python virtual machine.
6. Name a few blocks of code used to define python programming language?
A. Indentation is used to define block of code in python.
For Ex: a=20
If a>10:
Print(“a is greater than 10”)
else :
print(“a is less than 10”)
In this above example to define indentation for if block we used tab space or 4 spaces .
7. State a character used to give single-line comments in python?
A. # character is used to give single-line comments in python.
8. Mention functions which can help us to find the version of python that we are currently working on?
A. The function sys. version can help us to find the version of python that we are currently working on.
9. Python supports the creation of anonymous functions at runtime ,using a construct called? A. Lambda
10. What does pip stand for python?
A. PIP - Preferred Installer Program, it is a command-line utility that installs, reinstalls, or uninstalls PyPI packages .
11. Mention a few built-in functions in python?
A. print(),type(),id(),sum(),max(),min(),len() are few built-in functions in python.
12. What is the maximum possible length of an identifier in python?
A. An identifier can have a maximum length of 79 characters in Python.
13. What are the benefits of using python?
A. Python is simple to use and understand , dynamically typed , Free and open source, portability etc
14. How is memory managed in python?
A. Memory in Python is managed by Python private heap space. All Python objects and data structures are located in a private heap. This private heap is taken care of by Python Interpreter itself, and a programmer doesn't have access to this private heap.
15. How to install python on windows and set path variables?
A. Open the official Python website in your web browser. And download the latest python version
Run the Executable installer.
Add Python to PATH environmental variables
To verify the python installation through the command line. Open command prompt and type “python”.
16. Is indentation required in python?
A. Indentation is mandatory in python to define the blocks of statements. The number of spaces must be uniform in a block of code. It is preferred to use whitespaces instead of tabs to indent in python.
